The version of Spelunk! which you have received uses the following third-party
resources to function.

 -- SDL2 and SDL_ttf ---------------------------------------------------------

Spelunk! is designed to link to Simple DirectMedia Layer (SDL) version 2 and a
sub-project called SDL_ttf.  As of version 0.024, this is the default display
system for Spelunk!  Development binaries for SDL version 2.0.8 and SDL_ttf
version 2.0.14 are included in the ``lib'' folder and its subdirectories.

The SDL license can be found in ``doc/license/sdl2.txt''

SDL_ttf also uses zlib and FreeType, also included in the ``lib'' folder.

The zlib license can be found in ``doc/license/zlib.txt''
The FreeType license can be found in ``doc/license/freetype.txt''

 -- Proggy Fonts -------------------------------------------------------------

ProggySquareSZ, the greatest programmer's font on the planet, is included in
the ``assets/fonts'' folder as the default font for the SDL interfaces to
Spelunk!

The Proggy license can be found in ``doc/license/proggy.txt''

 -- the Doryen library, aka libtcod ------------------------------------------

The source file ``src/fov.d'' uses modified versions of functions taken
directly from the libtcod source code.  In good faith, a comment line has been
added to indicate very specifically that it has been modified from its
original version.

The libtcod license can be found in ``doc/license/libtcod.txt''

 -- ncurses and PDCurses ----------------------------------------------------

Spelunk! is designed to link to the ncurses and PDCurses libraries.  Neither
of these are included with the software; you are expected to install (at least
one of) them yourself before compiling.  Because of this, I can't say with any
certainty what licenses the versions you are using will be released under.
You are expected to use your own discretion.

ncurses is released under the X11 license (as of version 6.0), and the Free
Software Foundation has pledged that it will not release ncurses under any
other license.  However, I can not guarantee that the version you have does
not use other libraries or other functions under a different license.

PDCurses, or at least the core library, is released into the public domain
(accurate as of version 3.6) but some parts of it use other licenses.  This
complicates the actual terms of distributing PDCurses to the point that again
I can not say with any certainty with what freedom it may be distributed.
Again, use discretion.
