Note:  What follows is the license agreement for Spelunk!  For licenses for
other open-source software used for Spelunk!, please see the file
``3rdparty.txt''

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Spelunk! is Copyright (c) 2017 Philip Pavlick.  All rights reserved.

The above-named software product and its documentation (collectively, the
"Software") as well as the source files used to compile it (the "Source Code")
are hereby released for public use under the following conditions.  For the
purposes of this license agreement, the above copyright notice, this
paragraph, and the below sections labeled I through IV shall collectively be
referred to as the "Notice."  If you do not agree to the terms detailed in
this Notice, please delete your copy or copies of the Software.  Any violation
of the terms defined below may be met with legal force if you are deemed
important enough to deserve it.

  I. Warranty Disclaimer:  This Software and its Source Code are released
     "as-is," and all warranties, including the implied warranties of
     merchantability or fitness to a particular purpose, are hereby
     disclaimed.  In no event will the author, maintainer, or other
     contributors be held liable for any damages arising from or in any way
     connected to this Software, even if advised of the possibility of such
     damages.

     In particular, no guarantee or claim is made that use or compilation of
     the Software is entirely secure or that security risks will not be
     presented as a result of the use of this Software.

 II. Unmodified copies or portions of the Software and its Source Code may be
     duplicated and distributed, in any medium, subject to the following
     conditions:

     1. This Notice and the below "Letter from the Author" must be retained,
        unmodified, with all distributions of the Software, its Source Code,
        or any portion thereof.  All existing references to copyrights, to
        this Notice, and to the absence of any warranties must be retained.

     2. No copy of the Software, Source Code, or any portion thereof, modified
        or otherwise, may be sold, rented, leased, offered on a pay-per-play
        basis, or otherwise used for any commercial application except as
        contained in this Notice.

     Please note that Paragraph 2 is not intended to infringe upon your "fair
     use" rights (U.S. Copyright Act 1976, 17 U.S.C. § 107 and relevant
     amendments) and you may freely use the Software and its Source Code under
     the doctrine of fair use if you wish.

III. The Software and/or Source Code may be modified by any user, and these
     modifications may be distributed as per Section II, including attaching
     an unmodified copy of this Notice and the "Letter from the Author."  Any
     user who distributes modifications to the Software and/or Source Code
     agrees to make their changes available to the author or maintainer of the
     original Software upon request so that these changes may be incorporated
     into future releases of the Software.  Apart from this condition, there
     is no requirement to release the source code for modifications to the
     Software.

 IV. Small portions of the Source Code, such as individual functions or
     routines, may be used to create new software.  So long as this new
     software does not copy the whole Source Code, it shall be considered a
     "Derivative" for the purposes of this Notice.  Derivatives are exempt
     from the restrictions defined in Sections II and III, and may be
     exploited for commercial purposes under the following conditions:

     1. This Notice and the below "Letter from the Author" must be recreated
        unaltered in the documentation for the Derivative as an
        acknowledgement of the authorship of this Software.

     2. No assets--including, but not limited to, image files, music and
        sound, and/or data files--or other trademarks of the above-named
        copyright holders included with this Software may be used or recreated
        for the purposes of the creation of a commercial Derivative, unless
        explicit prior written permission has been provided.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

This line marks the end of the license agreement for Spelunk!  What follows is
a "Letter from the Author."  Please note that the views in this letter are
entirely my own, and do not reflect the opinions of any other contributor or
distributor.

To my users:

  The software product to which this letter is attached is careware.
What that means, in this particular case, is that I would like to take this
opportunity to discuss an issue that affects children growing up in America,
where this software was developed, and around the world.

  In 2017 the House of Representatives in the United States voted to add male
circumcision to the list of actions which are protected under the
International Freedom of Religion Act of 1998.  This motion has set a
precedent for the rest of the world to follow that the cutting of juvenile and
infant boys' genitals is an acceptable religious practice, despite countless
medical studies which have shown it to have long-lasting physical and
psychological impacts on the men that those boys grow into, far outweighing
the oft-touted medical "benefits" of the practice.

  There is a reason why the equivalent practice, colloquially known as "female
circumcision" but more accurately as "female genital mutilation," is illegal
throughout the developed world, and why there are significant movements to
have it abolished everywhere else.  Unfortunately the United States appears to
be trying to shut the door on ever banning the practice of mutilating boys,
and are preventing those boys and men from ever seeking legal recourse with
which they may seek compensation or retribution.  In addition to being a human
rights violation, this will severely cripple us from abolishing female genital
mutilation elsewhere: We are in no position to protest female genital cutting
until we stop cutting our males.

  These issues don't just apply to U.S. citizens, either; as of 2017, even
though female circumcision has been abolished throughout the Western world and
most of Asia, male circumcision remains legal and largely uncontested all over
the world.

  If you like this software and would like to reward me for it by sending me
money, I would suggest instead giving to a cause fighting against genital
mutilation, of which there are numerous operating around the world.  Your
money would be much better spent on them than on me, as they do good work.

  Please also consider writing to your government representatives to let them
know that this is an issue you care about.  Stand up for your childrens' right
to individual autonomy, and send a positive, rather than negative message, to
the next generation.

  The only person who has the right to decide if you should be cut is you.
Amputation is a last resort; not cosmetic, not preventative, and not a
decision to be made lightly.  That's all I wanted to say.

  If you'd like, I give you permission to snip this "Letter from the Author"
out and send it to other people.  Help spread the word about this issue.
If you distribute this software, please leave this letter intact.  This is
careware, after all; if you take the "care" part away, then what's the point?

 - Philip Pavlick
