SwashRL is copyright 2016-2019 Philip Pavlick

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
use SwashRL except in compliance with the License.  You may obtain a copy of
the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  See the
License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
the License.

SwashRL is distributed with a special exception to the normal Apache License
2.0.  See LICENSE for details.

The version of SwashRL which you have received uses the following third-party
resources to function:

 -- DejaVu Fonts ------------------------------------------------------------

DejaVuSansMono, a freeware / open-source font, is included in the
``assets/fonts'' folder as the default font for the SDL interfaces to SwashRL.
DejaVuSansMono uses a few other fonts as a base, the licenses of which are
included with the DejaVu license notice.

The DejaVu fonts license can be found in ``docs/license/dejavu.txt''

  -- the Doryen library, aka libtcod -----------------------------------------

The source file ``src/fov.d'' uses modified versions of functions taken
directly from the libtcod source code.  In good faith, a comment line has been
added to indicate very specifically that it has been modified from its
original version.

The libtcod license can be found in ``docs/license/libtcod.txt''

  -- SmugglerRL --------------------------------------------------------------

Substantial portions of the Input/Output code in ``src/ioterm.d'' were
cannibalized from Elronnd's SmugglerRL project, which Elronnd graciously
allowed me to use as the base for my own SDL terminal interface.

The SmugglerRL git repository can be found here at the time of writing:
  http://repo.or.cz/SmugglerRL.git

The SmugglerRL license can be found in ``docs/license/smuggler.txt''

  -- ncurses and PDCurses ----------------------------------------------------

SwashRL is designed to link to the ncurses and PDCurses libraries.  Neither
of these are included with the software; you are expected to install (at least
one of) them yourself before compiling.  Because of this, I can't say with any
certainty what licenses the versions you are using will be released under.
You are expected to use your own discretion.

ncurses and PDCurses are not critical for SwashRL to function, and either may
be excluded from your copy by compiling with SDL2 instead (see above).

ncurses is released under the X11 license (as of version 6.0), and the Free
Software Foundation has pledged that it will not release ncurses under any
other license.  However, I can not guarantee that the version you have does
not use other libraries or other functions under a different license.

PDCurses, or at least the core library, is released into the public domain
(accurate as of version 3.6) but some parts of it use other licenses.  This
complicates the actual terms of distributing PDCurses to the point that again
I can not say with any certainty with what freedom it may be distributed.
Again, use discretion.
